(lively whistling music)
Welcome back if you made it this far.
Congratulations, this is probably
the most ambitious one that we'll take on
and really you'll probably find it's not too tough
once we sorta breakdown the big ideas
and that is building sorta this app layout that's
so common on a mobile phone with FlexBox.
Now I think this is super important because when you're
on a phone you are constrained by the height or the width
of the phone and you need to be able to have something
that you can just manage the height of the application
so what I've gone is ahead is I've built this little app
that we have here
and you can see when you resize it vertically
because all phones can be different sizes,
same with horizontally actually.
If you resize it vertically and horizontally
it will just kinda react to go ahead
with it and I have no media queries in here,
no floats, no widths, no heights, none of that stuff.
It's all using FlexBox
so I think this is gonna be really big for FlexBox,
to be building this kinda thing.
In fact if you've heard of React Native.
React Native is this framework where you can write apps
in JavaScript and it gets complied into native.
The way that they handle their layouts is with FlexBox
so it's kind of important to know this stuff.
So let's get started, this is exactly what we're building.
We got things on the left, things on the right,
things that are centered, we got all these buttons
that are the same amount.
Then we got this content area,
that's just gonna take up the rest
of the room after we take room for the header
and the icon bar there.
So let's jump on in and I am just gonna change this back
to my base style and I want you to open up style.css
and you're gonna see tons of different CSS here
and let me refresh that to see what we're starting with.
So this is just again, it's all just cosmetic stuff.
Nothing here really has anything
to do with the Flex property,
except that one shouldn't be in there
and we are starting off with this.
So we've got the header, see this link is on one line,
this is on another and this is on a third.
We've got this content area, let's look at the HTML
while we do this, we go the app wrap
which is this sorta black thing that looks like a phone.
We got the header which is this big yellow part.
We got the div of the class of content
which is the white that has a whole bunch
of content in there and we got this div with the class
of a icon bar and inside of that I've got a whole bunch
of links, inside of that we've got some text
and we've got some font awesome icons which we're using.
So let's get started, I am gonna go through this kinda
by section by section,
just so that we can understand what's going on.
Let's start with the overall layout,
right now it's just spilling out
and that's because that app wrapper,
where do we got it here,
the app wrap I've put a height of 90vh on it
and that means it's 90 percent of the height of the browser,
you'll see that right here it resizes
but the content doesn't come along with it.
So let's get all that fixed up and ready to go.
So first thing that we are going to do
is select the app wrap and we're gonna turn on FlexBox,
sorry, display Flex, give that a save and when you refresh,
wooh, what's going on here,
so it puts the navigation here, which would be interesting
for some apps, I guess you could slide it up
from the side but this is kind of what we've been working
with a lot so far and it's not what we want
for working with an app.
We don't want to deal with rows, we want to deal with
or we don't want to deal with one row,
we want to deal with multiple columns,
so the way that we change the axis so the horizontal
and the vertical axis, the main axis
and the cross axis is, we say flex direction column
and that will stack them on top of each other.
So we're kinda back where we were, we got this, we got that
and we are there and then we also want to set these items
to both grow and shrink.
So I am gonna select all of the flex items
in this case it's going to be the icon bar,
it's going to be the content
and it's going to be the app header.
So say .app, .wrap, I'll seize a star selector
to grab those and say flex and I want it to grow one,
I want it to shrink one,
essentially that means just don't do anything,
stay as the size and I'll tell you why that's important
in just a second and then finally for the flex basis
how big it should be, I am going to say auto
and why am I going to say auto,
Because I want this header to take up
as much room as it needs,
maybe it's gonna be more padding or less.
I want this bar here to take up as much room as it needs
and then I want the rest of the content
to be dedicated towards this content area
that we can scroll in there so I am going to say auto,
give that a save and refresh,
and you'll notice that nothing really changed there,
the height of this bar is being taken up by the link
and the header and the other link.
However because we said auto we're allowing the content
to go as high as we want and because we have scroll room,
really we've got all the room that we could want.
So what we need to actually do is go to our content,
so lets make a new section there and we'll select it
and say overflow y scroll,
so we are essentially gonna be turning on the scroll
for this one right here and then when we refresh,
interesting what happens, the header takes up
as much room as it needs, the footer or the icon bar
takes up as much room as it needs
and then the content just kinda takes the rest
and because we put scroll on it
it will just scroll for the rest.
One other thing we need to put on there
is webkit overflow scrolling and we will say touch
and what that will do is,
if you have ever been on a web site on your phone
and you try to go through a scrolling content area
and it doesn't have that kind of flick to scroll,
the initial scrolling, that's because you haven't turn on
overflow scrolling touch to it.
So if you test this out on your phone it will work great.
So now that we've got that, that's great.
And you can see that this is still huge,
but because it's huge it's gonna take up that room for now,
we're gonna get it trimmed down much smaller
in just a second.
So that's the content and I'm gonna go above that
and we'll do the header now.
And how should we best lay this out,
if you noticed before we had the back button
on the left, we had this H1 in the middle,
and we've got this cog icon on the right hand side.
Now previously this would have been done
with floats or you'd maybe say this one is 20 percent,
this one is 70 percent and you give each of them
up to 100 percent,
and thankfully we don't have to do that anymore,
we have the control in FlexBox.
So let's go ahead and select it.
.app-header and this app header
is also going to be display flex.
Why, because we want the header to be flex
and we want the link, the H1 and the other link
to also be flex items so we can easily put them
to the left, to the right in the middle.
Display flex and now when we refresh that,
look at what we got going on here.
It puts them all on the same line,
the H1 is no longer block like where it takes up
its own line, it's right in the line there,
and then these icons, what's going on with them
why are they so big.
The reason behind that is because it's taking the height
of this H1 and determining that that's the height
and by default these are gonna stretch.
So we need to go ahead and change that,
we'll say align items center.
And what that does
is remember we're on the flipped access now,
it's gonna vertically center them
so they're all centered in there,
and now we've got the issue where we've got this title,
FlexBox app layout and we need this to go to the right,
this to go to the left,
you might be thinking yeah just add a bunch of padding
until it works out but remember this is,
we're not sure what the screen size is gonna be,
so we sort of need to account for
all of the different screen sizes,
whether it be bigger or smaller.
And luckily for us we have the justify content
and remember space between.
What that will do is it will take the extra space
which is right here and it's going to put it
in between the element so how many in between elements
do we have, well we've got three elements,
but we have two spots, one to the left of the F
and one to the right of the T,
that it's going to divi that space on up.
So refresh, oh yeah lookin' real good.
Pretty simple, if I go in here and I were to change this
to Wes is cool, you know it's much smaller
but it still works perfectly, no fiddling with floats
and text lines it just works perfectly.
Um, so that's good for that, we've got this part working
and now really all we have left to do is this icon bar here.
So let's create ourselves a third section,
we'll call it the icon bar,
and for the icon bar it's gonna be pretty simple,
grab that and we'll say display flex as well,
and when that is flex, sorry, not icon it's icon bar,
when the icon bar is flex,
all of these links which are the immediate children,
are gonna become flex items,
and they go right beside each other.
Now we've got all this extra space right here
and what do we do to specify the extra space,
well we apply a flex grow and a flex shrink on it.
So we will go ahead and say icon bar A,
select all the links and we'll simply just say flex one.
And what that will do is it will set a flex grow
and a flex shrink of one, which means that the extra space
or when there's not enough space,
they'll evenly get space or have it taken away from them.
So refresh, ooh, very nice, right up and working.
So again just a couple of lines of code
understanding that this is the power of FlexBox
if I were to ever resize this thing horizontally
or vertically, everything sort of just goes into place.
So hopefully you like that one, let me know what you think,
and I'll see you soon.
(lively whistling music)